---
layout: post
title: "Meeting 5"
description: "A recap of meeting 5."
tags: [meetings]
---

_This is part of a series of posts that summarize my meetings with Professor Ian M. Mitchell for our own records._

During the fifth meeting, on March 9th, we discussed TBD.

## This week's highlights
- Refined drafts of the following based on previous discussions:
  - [State space & boat model]({% post_url 2017-02-10-state-space %})
  - [Evaluation scenario]({% post_url 2017-02-11-evaluation-scenario %})
- Composed the following drafts:
  - [Planning architecture overview]({% post_url 2017-03-05-planning-architecture %})
  - [Perception]({% post_url 2017-03-09-perception %}) (early draft)
- Made progress towards using K. Wille's Masters thesis materials as a platform for controller & micro/local planner evaluation.
  - Extending it to support the [evaluation scenario]({% post_url 2017-02-11-evaluation-scenario %}).
  - Work on an initial, naive micro planner implementation.
- Extensive progress in developing a planet-level planner.
  - Pathfinding between any two points on the planet works and is highly performant.
  - Highly extensible, modular design created with testability in mind.
  - Added a CLI.
    - Has a .kml output option for easy display on Google Maps.
  - Project will also be used for the production-intent realtime planner.
    - There are many general-purpose utilities required, maintaining a common library with a mono-repo helps ensure that nothing diverges.
    - This will make E2E testing easier and maintaining cross-system compatibility easy.
      - Unit tests that use both libraries can be easily implemented.
      - A target containing all planners would simple to make.
    - The global planner can be used to bootstrap micro/local.
      - The current A* implementation will be useful for local.
- Further readings from Siegwart's Intro to Autonomous Mobile Robots, specifically relating to sensors.

## Points for discussion
- The highlights above.

## Summary of discussion
TBD

## Goals for next meeting
- Expand the perception section draft & revise others.
- Further development of the simulations.
  - TBD
- Further development of the micro/local planner (on vessel).
  - TBD
- Further development of the global (planet-level) planner (on server).
  - Augment the HexPlanet graph by making distant neighbours available. This will double the angular resolution available to the vessel at any time, offering the following benefits:
    - Significantly reduce the tendency for the path to travel along the HexPlanet's original geometry.
    - Increase the accuracy/benefit of modeling vessel performance against apparent wind.
    - Note: watch for problems with hitting obstacles by "hopping" over them.
  - Assign a value to time steps.
    - Proposed strategy for an accurate time step length:
      - Store the minimum & maximum edge lengths seen while computing them all at the end of HexPlanet generation.
      - Set the time step length should be the average time required to travel one-half of their difference.
        - This will allow for the accurate propagation of time as planning goes on, keeping dynamic risks in sync with the time at which the vessel is believed to be at the given location.
    - Evaluate the runtime and solution performance of the planner using various time step lengths.
      - Compare how disparate the solution time is between using the accurate time step length computation and one time step per any edge.
  - Display generated paths on the Viewer (OpenGL GUI application).
    - Use an additional GL_ARRAY_BUFFER containing a mapping of colour to each edge.
  - Work on GRIB (weather data) parsing and storing the data in a WeatherHexMap.
- Work on generating a performant multi-resolution bathymetry library.
  - Use API calls to generate a QuadTree-based format for offline use by both the micro/local and global planners.
  - For a given scenario space, the source QuadTree-based format is used to create a look up map between the values and locations we care about (e.g. graph nodes).
